Small fixes to configure rule severity section (#20779)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/configuration-options.md

---
# Configuration options for code analysis

Code analysis rules have various configuration options. These options are specified as key-value pairs in a configuration file. For example,

```ini
<option key> = <option value>
```

The most common option you'll configure is a rule's severity. You can configure severity level for all analyzer rules, including [code quality rules](rules/quality-rules-reference.md) and [code style rules](/visualstudio/ide/editorconfig-language-conventions).

> You can also configure additional options to customize rule behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure additional options to customize rule behavior:
```

> You can also configure additional options to customize rule semantics.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also configure additional options to customize rule behavior.
```

> - Code quality rules have [additional configuration options](code-quality-rule-options.md), such as which method names the rule should apply to, or whether only the public API surface should be analyzed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Code quality rules have [additional options](code-quality-rule-options.md) to configure behavior, such as which method names a rule should apply to.
```

> - Code style rules have [custom code style options](/visualstudio/ide/editorconfig-code-style-settings-reference) for style configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Code style rules have [custom code style options](/visualstudio/ide/editorconfig-code-style-settings-reference).
```

> - Third party analyzer rules can define their own configuration options, with custom key names and value format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Third party analyzer rules can define their own configuration options, with custom key names and value formats.
```

- [Rule severity level](#severity-level)
- [Options specific to *code-quality* rules](code-quality-rule-options.md)

> To set one of these options for a single rule, use the following syntax.

Author: Moved this block under the `Severity level` section

Reviewer: The reason I pulled it out of the severity level section is because it applies to the additional code-quality options too, e.g. `exclude_async_void_methods`.

Author: That has a different format though, and is specific to just the code quality rules. `dotnet_diagnostic.` and `dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.` are reserved by compiler for severity options only. It would be ideal if same prefixes are shared by code quality options, but they are not as of today.

Reviewer: Okay. We'll need to add a section back to the code quality rules options page then.

```
## Option scopes

Each refining option can be configured for all rules, for a category of rules (for example, Security or Design), or for a specific rule.

### All rules

The syntax for configuring an option for *all* rules is as follows:

|Syntax|Example|
|-|-|
| dotnet_code_quality.OptionName = OptionValue | `dotnet_code_quality.api_surface = public` |

### Category of rules

The syntax for configuring an option for a *category* of rules (such as Naming, Design, or Performance) is as follows:

|Syntax|Example|
|-|-|
| dotnet_code_quality.RuleCategory.OptionName = OptionValue | `dotnet_code_quality.Naming.api_surface = public` |

### Specific rule

The syntax for configuring an option for a *specific* rule is as follows:

|Syntax|Example|
|-|-|
| dotnet_code_quality.RuleId.OptionName = OptionValue | `dotnet_code_quality.CA1040.api_surface = public` |
```

Author: Ah, I did not realize that was removed. Let me do that.

Author: Done, can you please check again? Thanks.

- [Rule severity level](#severity-level)
- [Options specific to *code-quality* rules](code-quality-rule-options.md)

### Severity level

The following table shows the different rule severities that you can configure for all analyzer rules, including [code quality](rules/quality-rules-reference.md) and [code style](/visualstudio/ide/editorconfig-language-conventions) rules.

| Severity | Build-time behavior |
|-|-|
| `error` | Violations appear as build *errors* and cause builds to fail.|
| `warning` | Violations appear as build *warnings* but do not cause builds to fail (unless you have an option set to treat warnings as errors). |
| `suggestion` | Violations appear as build *messages* and as suggestions in the Visual Studio IDE. |
| `silent` | Violations aren't visible to the user. |
| `none` | Rule is suppressed completely. |
| `default` | The default severity of the rule is used. |

> [!TIP]
> For information about how rule severities surface in Visual Studio, see [Severity levels](/visualstudio/ide/editorconfig-language-conventions#severity-levels).

> To set the rule severity for a single rule, use the following syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Scope

To set the rule severity for a single rule, use the following syntax.
```

```ini
dotnet_diagnostic.<rule ID>.severity = <severity value>
```

To set the default rule severity for a category of analyzer rules, use the following syntax.

```ini
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.category-<rule category>.severity = <severity value>
```

To set the default rule severity for all analyzer rules, use the following syntax.

```ini
dotnet_analyzer_diagnostic.severity = <severity value>
```

> If you have multiple entries that can be applied to the same rule ID, precedence is chosen in the following order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Precedence

If you have multiple entries that can be applied to the same rule ID, precedence is chosen in the following order:
```

Reviewer: Is precedence generic or specific to severity?
